The Project Gutenberg eBook of Imitation of death, by Lester del Rey

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Imitation of death

Author: Lester del Rey

Illustrator: C. A. Murphy

Release Date: March 22, 2023 [eBook #70348]

Language: English

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK IMITATION OF DEATH ***





                          Imitation of Death

                           By Lester del Rey

    _Councilman Curtis would never cooperate with Max Fleigh's plans
    for overthrow. But a duplicate of Curtis, a simulacrum which could
    not be distinguished from the real man, would follow Fleigh's
    orders to perfection. And one man, Jeremiah Greek, knew the secret
    of making the duplications...._

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
      Future combined with Science Fiction Stories May-June 1950.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Max Fleigh's heavy jowls relaxed and he chuckled without humor as he
examined the knots that bound the man at his feet. Quite impersonally,
he planted the toe of his boot in Curtis' ribs, listened to the muffled
grunt of pain, and decided that the gag was effective. For once, Slim
had done a good job, and there was nothing wrong. It was probably
unnecessary, anyway, but there could be no bungling when the future of
the Plutarchy was at stake.

Incompetence had cost them an empire once, and there would be no third
opportunity. The stupid democracies that had called themselves a World
Union had colonized the planets and ruled them without plan. And when
Mars, Venus, and the Jovian Worlds had revolted and set up a Planet
Council, all that Earth could do was to come crawling to it, begging
polite permission to join what they should have owned!

But that had been before practical realists had kicked out the dreamers
and set up the Plutarchy under an iron discipline that could implement
its plans. Now they were heading back toward their lost empire,
colonizing the asteroids and establishing claims that gave them a
rough rule over the outlaws who had retreated there. With the Council
softened up by years of cautious propaganda, they were in a position to
ask and receive a Mandate over the scattered planetoids.

It was the opening wedge, and all they needed. Once the asteroids
could be given spurious independence to seek a Council seat, they
would be ready to strike at the Jovian Worlds. With proper incidents,
propaganda, and quislings, plus the planetoids to separate Jupiter from
Mars, there could be no question of the outcome. Earth would gain a
majority of three votes, and the Council would be the basis of a new
and greater Plutarchy.

Fleigh gave the bound body of Curtis another careless kick and went
forward to the cabin, where the lanky form of his companion was hunched
dourly over the controls of the little space-craft. "How's it going,
Slim?"

"So-so." Slim ejected a green stream of narcotic juice and grinned
sourly. "But I still say we been crowdin' our luck too hard!"

"Rot! Lay out the right moves, cover all possibilities, out-maneuver
your enemies, and you don't need luck! Ever play chess?"

"Nope, can't say I did. Played the horses on Mars, though, time we
h'isted the _Euphemeron_. Won, too--after I bought my lucky ghost
charm; been in the chips ever since!" Slim's grin widened, but his
face remained stubbornly unconvinced.

Fleigh chuckled. If the planetoid outlaws depended on magic, while the
Council visionaries spouted sentimental twaddle, so much the better
for the realists. "Charms don't work in politics, Slim. We have to
anticipate resistance. And you saw what happened to our fine Martian
Councilor Curtis when he decided to expose us and ruin the Mandate!"

"Yeah." Slim's yellow teeth chewed thoughtfully on his cud. "S'pose
he'd stood on Mars, though?"

"We'd have dropped hints of just the information he needed on Ceres and
trapped him there--as we did. Checkmate!"

"Or check-out! So when he don't come back, they smell a rat--an' I
ain't plannin' on bein' around to chew rat-poison. My grandpappy killed
a Councilor once--poor grandpappy!... Hey, there's the rock!"

       *       *       *       *       *

There was no outward sign of life on the barren little planetoid. But
as the ship came to a grinding stop in a narrow gorge, a concealing
shield snapped over them, and a crudely painted sign blazed out in
phosphorescent gaudiness on one rocky wall: _SIMILACRA, LTD. Jeremiah
Greek, Prop._ (A line in Greek characters.) Specialist: (Another
line in Greek characters.)

[Illustration: Fleigh came out of the lock first and paused while he
waited for Slim to shoulder the tarpaulin-covered Curtis and follow....]

Fleigh came out of the lock first and paused while he waited for
Slim to shoulder the tarpaulin-covered Curtis and follow. He grinned
and pointed at the Greek characters in the sign. "_Magician and
wonder-worker_; specialist _in imitation and mockery_," he
translated. "I looked it up on Mars, so don't go thinking it's some
kind of spell.... Now if the old fool will open up...."

Max remembered his own preconceptions of Greek's process, pictured
various impressive-looking apparatus, which included a large tube
through which some sort of lightning zig-zagged, and a beautiful woman
taking form from a stream of transmuted elements streaming from the
top. It was nothing like such cinematic legerdemain, of course.

[Illustration: Max pictured a beautiful woman taking form from a stream
of transmuted elements streaming from the tube.]

"Why ain't English good enough for him?" complained Slim. "I don't go
for that magic stuff, Max. We been...."

But the Sigma was already swinging back on its tips to reveal a passage
through the rock. A little, shriveled man in tattered shorts and
thick-lensed glasses stood motioning them in impatiently, and the door
closed silently when they obeyed his summons. They headed down a side
passage toward a ramp and the sound of busy humming.

Greek threw open a door and pointed to a table where the duplicate of
Councilor Curtis lay, with a duplicate Jeremiah Greek fussing over
it and humming through his nose. The guide dropped to a bench and
began removing his chest and inserting a fresh power pack between two
terminals.

Slim's mouth dropped open and his burden slipped from his back to the
floor with a sodden thump, while he stared from one Greek to the other,
and back to the first. His fingers were stretched in the ancient sign
of the horns as he watched the changing of accumulators, and his voice
was hoarse and uncertain. "A damned robot!"

"Not a robot--a similacrum," denied the owl-eyed man who must have been
the original of the metal creature. "I'm a mimesist, not a creator.
A robot has independent life, but that's only a limited copy of my
memories and habits, like this phoney Curtis. And those tapes you
brought me, Fleigh--they stink!"

He gestured toward the spools of the marvelous wire that could record
electromagnetic waves of any type of frequency up to several million
megacycles. In one corner, a stereo-player was running one off, but the
vision screen was fuzzy, and the voice part was a mass of gibberish.

Fleigh scowled at it, and turned back suspiciously to Greek. "Sure you
know how to use them? Those were made by--"

"By a fool who had a shield leak in his scanner! Only a few were any
good. I was using pancyclic tape before you ever saw a stereo-record.
Where do you think I impress my similacrum's memory--on a real brain?
It takes miles of tape to feed the selectrons! I did the best I could,
but.... Here, take a look!" He reached into the false Curtis' mouth and
did something that made the figure sit up suddenly.

Max went over and muttered into the thing's ear, but after the first
few answers it lapsed into sullen silence, and he swung back toward
Greek. "I told you Curtis had to be perfect! This wouldn't fool a
Jovian!"

"And I told you I wasn't Jehovah--I specialize in mechanical
imitations," Greek answered shortly. "Bum tape, bum similacrum! If you
brought me some decent reels, I'll see what I can do, though."

       *       *       *       *       *

Fleigh grunted and yanked the tarpaulin off the real Curtis. At the
sight, new interest appeared on Greek's face, and he came over to
examine the Councilor, but stopped after a cursory look had shown that
the man was still alive.

He nodded. "That's more like it, Fleigh. I'll set up an encephalograph
and ideoform analyzer and record directly off his mind--it's better
than feeding impressions from tapes, anyway, though I always used an
editing circuit before. Okay, you'll get something his own mother would
swear was perfect."

"When?"

"Depends. Narrow-band analysis would take a couple weeks, but it'd be
permanent. If I run an all-wave impressor in, the tapes will be barely
affected. I can do it in ten-twelve hours, but your similacrum will
begin to fade in a week, and wash out completely in a month."

"Suits me," Fleigh decided. "We won't need him more than a few days;
any place where Slim and I can catch up on our sleep while you finish?"

Greek's double came to life at a signal and led them down a series
of rock corridors to a room that lacked nothing in comfort, then went
silently out and left them alone. To Fleigh's relief, Slim tested the
bed in sour displeasure, pulled a blanket off, and rolled up on the
floor, leaving the flotation mattress unoccupied. He had as little use
for such luxuries as his boss had for his presence in the same bed.
Max climbed in and adjusted the speegee dial to perfect comfort with a
relaxed grunt of pleasure.

He had no intention of sleeping, though, while things that concerned
him were going on. Three hours later, he heaved out and slipped
silently down the rocky halls on sponge-rubber slippers. But his
training had covered the stupidity of spy-stereos, and there was
nothing stealthy about his entry into the laboratory. Greek looked up
from a maze of wires and gadgets with faint surprise but no suspicion.

"Couldn't sleep," Fleigh volunteered apologetically. "I was wondering
if you had any barbiturates?"

A few minutes later he took the tablet from Greek's double and turned
back down the hallway with a muttered thanks. He had learned all he
wanted to know. Both Greeks and Curtises were present and accounted
for, where they belonged, and the mimesist was busy about his work;
there was no funny business involved. Actually, he had expected none,
but it never did any harm to make sure of such things when dealing with
men who were outside the law of either the Plutarchy or the Council.

Slim was snoring and kicking about on the floor when he returned, and
he grinned as he plopped back onto the mattress. The outlaws were
useful enough now. But once Earth took over the Mandate, something
would have to be done about them; too many were the wrong sort to fit
into the Plutarchy. Fleigh stretched with a self-satisfied yawn, and
slipped into well-earned sleep.

       *       *       *       *       *

Greek's similacrum wakened them in the morning and led them back to
the laboratory, where the scientist was waiting beside the imitation
Curtis. The real Councilor must have been drugged, for he lay
unconscious on one of the tables. Fleigh wasted only a casual glance at
him, and then turned to the new similacrum as Greek flipped it on.

This time his tests were longer, and there were no sullen silences from
the imitation. Its response was quick, sure, and completely correct;
the real Curtis could have done no better, and Fleigh stepped back at
last and nodded his approval. He'd demanded a perfect similacrum, and
it had been delivered.

"You're sure it has a good strong desire to live?" he asked briefly as
he fished into his bag for the little prepared relay that was ready.

Greek smiled faintly. "They all have that--they couldn't pass as normal
men without it. And if your dimensions were correct, you should have no
trouble installing your relay."

He stripped aside the blouse, to reveal a small cavity in the back
of the similacrum, with a bundle of little wires which Fleigh hooked
onto the relay. It slipped in, and locked firmly. Greek unclipped the
tiny switch from inside the machine's mouth. The animation within
the similacrum disappeared at once, to snap back again as a switch
on Fleigh's bag was pressed. A little circle of the pancyclic strip
moved over a scanner inside the bag, sending out a complex wave, while
a receiver in the similacrum's back responded by closing the relay.
Then the animation was cut off again, and came back at once on a second
pressure of the switch.

"Attempted removal of the relay will destroy all circuits, just as you
ordered," Greek assured the operative. "Well?"

Fleigh's face mirrored complete satisfaction. "You get the fire
emeralds, as promised!"

He reached into the bag and came out with a little bundle, a grin
stretched across his face. It stayed there while Greek moved forward
quickly, to stagger back with a chopped-off scream as the slugs poured
into his face and exploded his head into a mangled mess of blood and
grey tissue!

For a second, the Greek double moved forward, but it turned with a
shriek and went down the hall at a clumsy run as Fleigh ripped the
smoking gun from the package. He let it go. Curtis' head dissolved
under a second series of slugs, and only the similacrum of the
Councilor was left in the laboratory with the two men.

Slim closed his mouth slowly and reached for his green narcotic, but he
made no protest. The other moved about, gathering up combustibles and
stacking them in a corner, then setting fire to the pile.

"Which takes care of almost everything, Slim," Fleigh said calmly. They
headed out and down the hall toward their ship, with the imitation
Curtis moving quietly along behind. Another slug from the gun destroyed
the lock on the big Sigma, and they pushed through, out into the rocky
gorge. "Nothing left to chance, and a perfect red herring to cover up
Curtis' disappearance."

       *       *       *       *       *

Slim ducked into the lock and went forward to the controls. "Uh-huh.
Grandpappy'd sure of admired you, Max! Used to look just the same when
he drilled somebody he didn't like.... All set for take-off?"

"Forgetting anything, Slim?"

The outlaw looked up in puzzled surprise, while Fleigh shook his head
and went over to the receiver. There was no sense in trying to teach
the fool anything, apparently, but at least he might have learned
elementary caution from his mode of life. The Plutarch operative ripped
out the tape from the illegal all-wave recorder and slipped it into a
play-back slot, while slow comprehension crossed the other's face.

But everything was in order, with the usual hash of faint signals on
various frequencies. There were no signs of a strong response, such as
would have been made by any attempt on Greek's part to double-cross him
with a call to the outside. He set the receiver to record, and went
toward the rear cabin and the similacrum, while the ship blasted off
and headed toward Mars.

The false Curtis was already at a table, and groping through a bag
of notes the original Councilor had carried. It looked up as Fleigh
came in, grimaced, and went on organizing the papers before it. The
operative dropped to a chair with his familiar humorless chuckle.

"You realize your life is dependent on obedience, uh--Curtis?"

"Would I have let you kill myself otherwise?" the thing asked grimly.
"Leave that control gadget of yours where I can get it, and you'll feel
the difference between my hands and mere flesh ones! But meantime, I'll
cooperate, since I have no choice; I suppose you intend helping me with
my speech before the Council?"

Fleigh's appreciation for the peculiar genius of Greek went up several
points, as he assented tersely. The thing was perfect, or so nearly
so that it seemed to consider itself the real man. There would be no
trouble on that score. As for the control bag--he had no intention of
letting that out of his hands until the similacrum was turned off.

It gestured toward the notes with a motion peculiar to Curtis. "You'd
only ruin anything you edited, Fleigh. I'm perfectly capable of
writing the thing myself, and it'll sound like me! But if I'm going
to give you a clean sheet and not make the whole Council suspicious,
I'll need more information than I have. I must have the whole picture,
so that I can take care of all objections without running counter to
what some other Councilors may know already. Also, I think you'd better
learn to address me as Councilor Curtis!"

"Quite so, Councilor," Fleigh agreed, and this time the amusement in
his laugh was genuine. "Now if you'll tell me what you know of our
plans and methods, I'll fill in the blanks. But I want to see that
speech, when you're finished."

       *       *       *       *       *

It was amazing, the amount of evidence Curtis had managed to accumulate
in a brief week; or perhaps much of it had been in his hands before,
and only needed organizing against what they had let him find on Ceres.
It was enough to have ruined all hopes of Earth's getting the Mandate,
and seriously endangered her relations with the Planet Council in
addition. Fleigh made a mental note to press for an investigation of
some of the outland operatives as he began filling in the missing links
in the other's information.

Curtis took the facts down in a note-book, grim-faced and silent,
checked them back, and reached for the typewriter. The first part of
the speech he had meant to deliver needed but slight modification,
and Fleigh read it over the similacrum's shoulder as it operated the
machine. Then the going grew tougher, and there were long pauses while
the thing considered, revising a word here, or changing a paragraph
there. It disregarded Fleigh's suggestions with the same disdain that
would have been on the real Councilor's face, and the operative began
to realize that it was justified. When it came to writing speeches, he
was only an amateur, and this was professional work.

He was beginning to regret that the thing could have a life of only
from a week to ten days, when it finished; Earth could have used such
a propagandist, particularly one accepted on the Council as Mars'
chief representative! Curtis' speeches had always been good, but he
had never realized that the man's talents would have been equally
good on propaganda. It was hard to believe that this was fiction, as
he listened to the calm, assured voice running through it, apparently
reciting only the simple truth, and yet coloring every word with some
trick of oratory that seemed to make it glow with virtue and integrity.

"Perfect!" he commented when it was finished. He cut off the relay
signal, watched the similacrum slip to the floor, and went forward to
the control cabin with a full measure of satisfaction. Earth could not
fail!

And already the red disc of Mars was large and close on the view-plate.
Fleigh hadn't realized the time the writing of the speech had taken,
but he did not regret a second of it as Slim began nursing the ship
down through the thin atmosphere toward the Solar Center.

       *       *       *       *       *

The taste of coming victory was strong in Max Fleigh as he waited
outside the Martian House the next day, but Slim was still glum and
morose. Part of that was probably due to his orders to stay out of the
usual outlaw haunts on the planet, where the police might have picked
him up and ruined the whole plan. The rest, Fleigh decided, was just
his natural fear of what he could not understand.

The outlaw was grumbling and turning his lucky ghost charm over and
over in his palms. "Leavin' the thing run around this way! We been
lucky, Max, but tain't reasonable to figger it'll hold! You shoulda let
me tail him!"

"Sure, Slim. People expect him to go around with you at his heels, no
doubt!" Fleigh spat dango seeds out of the open car window, and took
another bite of the cool fruit before going on. "We have to let him
circulate; no Councilor just back from a two-week trip would hole up
before this meeting, when he had instructions to pick up any last
minute details piling in. Besides, we're not dealing with Curtis now,
but with a machine. And it knows who its master is! The minute I cut
the relay, or it gets ten miles away from me--no life!"

He spotted the similacrum coming down the steps and jumped out to open
the car door. Slim grunted dourly, pulling his chauffeur's cap further
down over his forehead, but he took the curt order from Curtis with no
other protests and headed the big car toward the Council Chambers. The
Councilor passed over two slips of elaborate pasteboard and leaned back
against the seat.

"Passes for the two of you. Are you sure Slim knows what he's to do?"

There was a disgusted sound from the front, but Fleigh ignored it.
"He'd better; we've been over it often enough. But go ahead and make
sure."

The similacrum ticked off the points with incisive authority. The
Council Chamber was radiation proof, and since Curtis would not be
trusted with the relay signal, the success of the whole thing depended
on Slim's behavior. Max had secured a duplicate of his signal generator
which the outlaw was to use outside the Assembly, while Fleigh went
inside with his and waited. The operative had developed complete
confidence in the ability of the false Curtis, and he was sure of his
own part. It was all up to Slim, but there was no reason for him to
fail, and he had always taken orders well enough before.

Actually, it all went off with perfect smoothness. The guards passed
him in after a careful scrutiny of his permit, and he carried the
briefcase that held the generator up to the gallery and turned it on.
Seconds later, the similacrum came through the big doorway, with only a
slight flicker of uncertainty as the anti-radiation shield touched him
and he passed from one generator to the other.

Curtis walked along the aisle with the proper confidence and attention
to his friends, presented his credentials for the purely perfunctory
examination, and turned off into one of the little council-rooms.
Two of the other Martian Councilors followed him, and passed out of
Fleigh's field of view, but he was not worried about that. Slim came
slouching down the gallery stairs and dropped into a seat beside the
operative, putting the duplicate generator between his feet.

"Satisfied?"

"Perfect," Fleigh assured him. They would reverse it going out. After
that, Curtis would announce that he was leaving on a long trip to
Ganymede, and they would be able to dispose of the similacrum without
any parts left to show what he was.

       *       *       *       *       *

Then Curtis came back into the main chamber. Apparently the Council had
been waiting for his return, for the Sergeant-at-Arms waved for order,
and the meeting began, with almost no preliminaries. Earth brought up
the subject of the Mandate, and the head of the Venus Council began to
come to his feet. But Curtis was up first, and the Chair recognized him.

Fleigh relaxed completely as the familiar words of the speech began
to come to him, while the Venusans glanced about in surprise, and
then began to listen. A moment later they were under the sway of his
oratory. The single speech should do it, since the question had been
tentatively decided in favor of Earth at the last meeting, pending
Curtis' investigation. By night, the Mandate should be a _fait
accompli_, and Earth could begin moving out her mercenary legions in
the squat "mining" freighters.

Fleigh had a pretty good idea of who would lead them. He'd been in
line for promotion for some time already, and the Plutarch had dropped
hints of the outcome of success. It would be good to leave the dubious
position of operative and become a legally recognized governor of the
mandate planetoids, to settle down and begin organizing his own private
little plans for the Plutarch's job!

Slim nudged him with a bony knee, but Fleigh was too wrapped in his
own thoughts to bother until the other seized his elbow and hissed at
him. Then he came out of his day-dreams. Something was going on--the
Councilors were paying too careful attention, and the Earth Delegation
didn't look right! In a second, his mind was back on the speech, and
the words came to a chilling focus in his ears.

"... found the organization inconceivably complex. And yet the basic
pattern is old--old as the barbarism that prompted it. Gentlemen, I
have only my word as evidence now, but I can name names and give exact
locations that will enable our Planetary Police to confirm every word
of it before night falls on this meeting. The Plutarch of Earth, on the
twentieth of April, forty-two years ago, gave the following orders,
which I quote...."

Fleigh grabbed for Slim's generator, and yanked the button savagely,
but still the damning words went on, detail piling on exact detail,
while Secret Servicemen moved forward to cut the speaker off from the
Earth Delegates. Their rudeness was an open declaration that Earth was
immediately severed from the Council! Max ripped out the generator,
crushing the delicate tubes in his hands. He was stamping on his own
device at the same time, but the voice went on unchecked!

Down on the floor, Curtis looked upwards without pausing in his
detailed list of evidence, found the operative's eye, and grinned. Then
he resumed his normal gravity and went on!

Slim's hands were trembling and fumbling over his charm. Fleigh
practically carried him to the aisle, and dragged him along as he made
his way up the infinite distance to the gallery door. Every step was
made with the expectation of a shouted order from Curtis that would
send the big explosive slugs tearing through him, but it did not come.
Instead, there was only the quiet continuance of the speech, and Slim's
hoarse prayers to the ghosts of the charm to save them.

Surprisingly, the doors opened in the hands of the courteous guards,
and the hall was before them, with no police in sight. Max cut Slim's
babbled relief off with a crisp whisper. "We're not out of it, you
fool! Ten to one, it's cat and mouse, with us the losers. But if we're
going to make use of the tenth chance, shut up! Walk, damn it, and
_grin_!"

       *       *       *       *       *

There was another flight of stairs leading down, a long hall, and a
second door that opened promptly and politely as they neared it. Then
the main steps led down to the street. It was impossible that the
similacrum could have given no orders for their arrest; as impossible
as that the relay could be tampered with! But the big car waited at
the curb, and there were still no police.

Reaction left Slim drooling narcotic juice over the hands that were
caressing and kissing the charm. Fleigh yanked him savagely into the
car and gunned the electros. It went tearing out into the street under
full power, while a wild yell of despair ripped out of the outlaw's
throat.

"My ghost charm!" He was pawing frantically at the door lock, with his
face swivelled around toward the bright receding twinkle of the metal
piece on the sidewalk behind. "Max! Max!"

"Shut up and stay put! There must be a hundred more of those things
you can buy if we get out of this." Fleigh freed a hand and forced the
cringing fool back into the seat, where he relaxed woodenly, terror
fading out to sullen despair that gradually mingled with doubt.

"Then let's get out quick, Max! Oncet we hit Earth, I know a guy's got
another. Tain't as good a ghost with it as mine, but it ain't no fake,
neither! You gotta give me enough to get it, Max!"

Fleigh hid his thin grin from the other. They'd need more than a ghost
charm or even planning if they ever went to Earth! He'd seen what
happened to failures there, and he knew that it would be better to walk
into the nearest Planet Police Bureau. But he reached over soothingly
and patted the outlaw's shoulder. "Sure, Slim. We'll get you another,
maybe before we leave here."

It shouldn't be hard to find one of the charm peddlers, and dope up
a story. There was a place on Venus where they could hide, once Slim
worked up his nerve to pilot them there--and provided that their luck
held long enough to keep the police from impounding the little craft.
But the hideout would take money, and that had to come first. Planning
took care of that; he'd always been careful to avoid tieing his
personal fortune up in the Earth Operative strongholds.

He swung the car around a corner, glanced up at a jeweler's sign, and
cursed without slowing down. The red light was on, warning that it had
been raided. One of his secret quarters gone!

He stopped obediently for a through highway, and roared on. But the
second was no better. There was sweat on his forehead, and his hands
were slippery with it when he headed out Mars Center Canal into the
suburbs. Damn Curtis! It was impossible for him to have found the
hideout--or should have been!

But there was no warning light in the window of the third and last
place. The lawyer's faded sign swung in the thin wind, and everything
was serenely peaceful. Fleigh jerked Slim out of the car, set its
automatic chauffeur, and let it go rolling off.

Then he moved up the steps with the outlaw at his heels, listened
cautiously at the door, and nodded. The steady click of a typewriter
indicated that the scrawny little secretary was doing the routine
office-work, and Sammy must have been undisturbed. He opened the door
eagerly, to a louder clicking from the typewriter.

       *       *       *       *       *

Above it, Curtis looked up with an assured smile, and waved the
grandfather of all hand weapons at him in genial greeting!

"Come in, Max," he said cordially. "Like my double's speech?"

Slim's trembling hand fumbled out automatically in the sign of the
horns. His blanched mouth worked furiously, but the words refused to
come until Curtis turned to him. Then jerked back, waving his fingers.
"He couldn'ta.... We'd of beat him ... _Max!_ He's dead! He's a
ghost!"

Fleigh's hand groped for him, and missed. Another apparition came into
the room from the inner office. This one was a shrivelled, little man,
with owl-eyes that blinked at them out of thick-lensed spectacles.
Jeremiah Greek picked up a pencil with a contented grin, drew it across
the bare flesh of his arm; and held the red mark that rose on the skin
out toward the outlaw.

"In the flesh," he stated.

But Slim was no longer listening. Slowly, as if moved by worn-down
clock-works, he slid down the wall and his dead-faced head bent forward
to meet the knees that drew upwards. There he stayed, motionless.

"If that's catatonic return to the foetal position, it's an all-time
record for speed," Curtis commented with quiet interest. "Sit down,
Max. You seem to have overestimated your companion's moral fiber, and
underestimated your opponent's. Never count on luck! It takes planning
to get anywhere in this universe.... By the way, Jeremiah Greek is the
original inventor of pancyclic tape: you should have checked up on him,
before you trusted him, and found out the way your Plutarchy gypped him
out of his invention. He wasn't the sort of man who'd cooperate very
well with Earth. In fact, he was the sort who could and would fake a
tape for your recorder to cover up the call he put in under my code to
the Martian Council!"

Fleigh moved toward the chair as the gun commanded, only half conscious
of the words. He sank into a sitting position, his mind churning
savagely and getting nowhere. _Play along! Keep your eyes open! If
you let the other guy make the moves, he'll slip up somewhere._ It
was basic training to operatives, though there was uncertainty in even
that logic now. But there was nothing else to do.

Greek picked up the account. "With a promise of secrecy from Councilor
Curtis, and a chance to do legitimate research here, I felt quite free
to drop my very doubtful loyalty to my native planet, Mr. Fleigh. Those
two similacra you shot were crude, and the brain and blood imitation
was quite poor, I thought. But fortunately, you didn't investigate
thoroughly."

"I didn't think the relay control could fail. So you simply let the
similacrum collapse and took its place?" Fleigh was forcing himself to
casualness, while his brain hashed over all the rules for upsetting
a trap. But it returned inevitably to the basic need of stalling for
time, and keeping them talking.

"Not at all," Curtis corrected him. "We were late returning, so they
simply used an all-wave receiver to record your control signal on
pancyclic tape, inserted it into a generator, and the similacrum had
his freedom in his pocket two minutes after you turned on your control
in the Council Chamber. You really didn't think I'd leave my speech in
the middle to chase you, when I had a perfectly good double, surely?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Fleigh's eyes darted to Slim, but there would be no help from that
quarter. Not a muscle had moved since the outlaw had collapsed onto the
floor!

He forced himself to relax deliberately. Relax! As long as he was
tensed up in the chair, they'd watch him, but they'd be less cautious
if he seemed to abandon hope. And he was younger and faster than they
were, in spite of his fat.

Greek's amused cackle broke his chain of thought. "So simple a
solution, Max! But of course, an involute brain would miss just
that.... That's fine, relax! And when you start anything, you'll be
surprised to find how quickly and efficiently a couple of sentimental
visionary fools can shoot! Or do you think, Councilor, that we're
really such fools?"

"I doubt it," Curtis answered, with the same hard amusement in his
voice. "As I see it, a reactionary is simply unable to adapt to new
conditions; he's filled with a blind, stubborn dependence on the rude
past. And brute force is an admission of that intellectual poverty.
Max, you should have studied history better. The addle-pated idealists
have a peculiar habit of winning."

They stood there, grinning and studying their captive with the one
thing in the universe he had never encountered--open contempt. Fleigh
wet his lips, glancing from one to the other, and considering the
hopeless distance to the door.

And suddenly the beginnings of an idea permeated through the hard knot
of fear in his brain. They didn't believe in brute force! They wouldn't
kill him without provocation; and they couldn't turn him in to the
police!

He swung back to Curtis, and this time there was a grin on his own
lips. "You said you promised Mr. Greek secrecy, Councilor. Not
immunity, because the old law against making robots is too strong; and
similacra would be considered robots. Well, just how do you figure you
can turn me over to the authorities without breaking that promise and
having him strung up beside me?"

"I never meant to turn you in," Curtis answered.

"And you said yourself that brute force was stupid!"

"Quite true." It was Greek who answered this time. "But the rules of
justice sometimes invoke it. The penalty for treason, like that for
robotry, is still death, though we've abandoned most other reasons for
capital punishment."

"Then turn me in! Or kill me yourselves--and you'll find that brute
force really is stupid on Mars! The police here are the best in the
system, which is why I always preferred to do my little jobs elsewhere.
You amateurs wouldn't have a chance. Well?"

But he knew that he had them, and the taste of freedom in his mouth was
sweet after the fear and hopelessness of their gloating power. He did
not wait for an answering nod from them, but turned from his chair in
calm assurance, and headed for the door.

       *       *       *       *       *

Greek's voice interrupted his exit. "Just a minute, Max! You really
should know all your mistakes, and there's one we forgot.... Never use
a perfect similacrum! It can't be perfect without thinking exactly like
its original; the same mind must operate the same way. Your similacrum
was limited only by the time it could exist--and it knew that, as well
as knowing it was useless among real men!"

"So what?" Fleigh asked jauntily, and reached for the door. "And so
long!"

Steel hands grabbed him, and a pair of arms with inhuman strength
picked him up and turned him around to face the two men. Curtis dropped
his gun onto the table with a slow, deliberate motion, holding the
struggling operative with a single hand, while he stretched the other
out to Jeremiah Greek. Then he turned toward the door, dragging the fat
body of Fleigh along without effort.

"So when you're found dead in your house, killed by the robot you were
having built in some fiendish plot against Councilor Curtis, I don't
think the police will worry--beyond seeing that both you and the robot
are thoroughly beyond repair!"

There was bitterness in the voice of the similacrum, but it was
resolute and determined bitterness. "When the real Curtis replaced me
in the Council Chamber, he meant to make my few days of existence as
pleasant as possible. But even a limited similacrum likes to be useful.
Come along, Max."

Max Fleigh went along; there was nothing else he could do, as the
duplicate of Curtis tossed him into a small car and began driving
back toward the town and the house that had been his Martian home and
would soon be his tomb. He couldn't even think straight, for his head
insisted on dwelling on nonsense.

Slim had been right, after all, and his ghost charm had brought him
luck, even after he lost it. But for the man who had refused to believe
in it, there was no hope for such insane oblivion. There was simply no
hope of any kind.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK IMITATION OF DEATH ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

• You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation.”

• You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
  works.

• You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

• You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you “AS-IS”, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™'s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
